If you're tired of losing to the
competition and never seeing your ads
appear in Google, this video is for you.
I know what it's like. You go to Google,
you search a few keywords, and you only
ever see your competitors ranking above
you. It's really annoying, and
unfortunately, you don't really
understand what to do to make sure that
you appear above them. If that resonates
with you, then this video was made
exactly for you. And I'm going to give
you a complete crash course on how to
outrank your Google Ads competition step
by step in this video. So ideally, you
can walk away from this, put into
practice, and improve the visibility of
your ads as soon as possible. If you're
new to the channel, I'm Sylvia Perez.
I'm the founder of Ad Conversion. We
teach 9,000 plus B2B marketers how to
master ads, and we manage over $40
million a year in ad spend for top B2B
SAS brands. Everything I'm going to be
explaining in this video is from my
experience, and I'm going to be sharing
it with you like if you were a team
member inside of my ad agency, just
sharing what we have found work over the
years for millions of dollars in Google
AdSense. I think it's really important
to state that your first and last goal
should be profitability. I've seen
people go wrong with this where they get
over obsessed about showing their ads as
often as possible at the expense of
profitability and generating a positive
return of their ads. At the end of the
day, you know, not all traffic is worth
it and not all visibility is worth it. I
am going to show you how you can outrank
your competition and get more visibility
and the things I explained today you
could totally use to show up as much as
you want. But if you don't have the
offer in place, the average deal size,
and the cost to acquire the traffic just
doesn't make sense for you based on your
unit economics, then is that traffic
ultimately worth it if you're just
burning cash in the process, even though
you are showing up more often than your
competitors? With that being said, let's
go ahead and dive into the auction
insights report. And this is what we're
going to use to first and foremost
understand how are we actually comparing
against the competition in terms of our
performance. Because if you don't know
how far off you are, then how are you
going to improve it? Okay, so I'm here
in Google Ads and to find the auction
insights report, just go ahead and click
on insights and reports under campaigns,
auction insights, and you can drill in
into a specific campaign that you want
to see the performance for, or you can
see it across all your search campaigns.
And I'm looking at a specific campaign
here. And I thought this was a great
example to show you for a new client
that we just inherited. We're doing the
audit for them. And one of the things
that we always ask ourselves when we
inherit a Google ad account is how
visible are we, right? In terms of
winning the game of Google Ads, right?
How how good of a job are we doing in
terms of the visibility we could be
receiving for the keywords that we're
bidding on. And here in the auction
insights report, I have a list of
competitors. So these are all the
different competitors that I'm going up
against. I do have to blur it just
because this is a real live account, but
basically I am right here. So, I am at
the very very bottom of this list,
unfortunately, compared to all these
competitors who are above me. And you
can see here I have an 18% search
impression share. Now, impression share,
and I really recommend that you have the
same columns that I do. I find these to
be the most valuable. But impression
share, if you've never heard of this
metric before, it tells you how often
are you actually showing up on Google
Ads. So, for instance, in a perfect
world, you have 100% impression share.
So that means of all the impressions you
could potentially receive based on your
existing targeting you are receiving
100% of the available impressions. Now
with competition that doesn't really
happen. So typically you have a 60%
impression share or 20% 30% 40% and it
can range and there are different
benchmarks depending on the keyword
strategies you're bidding on and how
aggressive the competition is for the
sets of keywords that you're interested
in. So in this example, I have an
impression share for this campaign and
these keywords of 18%. My top competitor
has an impression share for the same
sets of keywords and targeting of 71%.
So this is a perfect example where we
are dramatically missing out in terms of
visibility compared to our top
competitor on this list. The second
thing that I really like in terms of the
metrics and the auction insights report,
I really like this top of page rate. So
this metric tells me how often am I on
the top three spots of Google ads. And I
find this to be super helpful. So for
instance, this number one competitor,
they are on the top of Google 94% of the
time. I'm on the top of Google 74% of
the time. So for instance, they're
showing up 71% of the time. They're
getting 71% of the available
impressions. And when they're showing up
in terms of that 71%, they're showing up
in the top of the page 94% of the time,
which is incredible. They're doing a
great job. this account. However, when
we do show up on a positive note, it
when the limited times that we do show
up, we only show up 18% of the time in
terms of the impressions that we're
winning, we show up 74% of the time on
the top of the three spots. So, sounds
like to me that there are some serious
opportunities to optimize so that we can
really jump this list and get to the top
as fast as possible. The other metrics
here on this auction insights report,
you have overlap rate. This basically
just tells you are they a direct
competitor or are they a tangential
competitor. So direct competitors you
have usually much more overlap rate.
Direct competitors are bidding on
similar sets of keywords as you. It's
very possible that you can show up in
other brands can be on this list that
aren't necessarily direct competitor but
they're adjacent competitors or or
tangental competitors. Meaning they're
bidding on related keywords and based on
their existing targeting, maybe they
don't have good search terms, maybe they
don't have a good negative keyword set,
etc. they're showing up for your queries
even though they're not intending to. So
these are like adjacent competitors but
necessarily direct competitors. So the
overlap rate is a good metric to
understand direct versus adjacent. The
second one is a position above rate. So
when you guys are head-to-head, how
often is one person over the other? So
in this case when we are up against, you
know, this competitor, they are above us
69% of the time, which sucks. So a lot a
lot of work to be done. And then lastly,
you know, we talked about top of page
rate. The only difference between top of
page rate and absolute top of page rate
is this for this is for the position
one. And to be honest, I wouldn't stress
absolute top of page rate. I don't want
to go too into this because this video
is going to be a long one, but we have
ran tests and we know that sometimes
bidding on the second spot, third spot,
like showing up in the second, third
positions, you can actually have a
better CPA than showing up in the top
spot. So, it's not necessarily about
being in the number one spot, it's about
being in the top three spots. that's
really what matters so that you have a
chance of getting some clicks. And then
lastly, outranking share. This just
basically tells you how often are they
outranking you or or or vice versa. So
again, my favorite metrics here are
impression share, how visible are we in
terms of the total impressions, and then
when we do show up, how often are we
showing up on the top three page, and
then finally, overlap rate is great. You
can understand who you're really going
up against in terms of direct
competitors versus adjacent competitors.
Now that we understand the auction
insights report and how we're doing
against the competition, I want to talk
to you about competitive metrics and how
these are going to be absolutely
essential in order for you to understand
where you need to focus your efforts in
terms of visibility. I'm going to give
you a quick walkthrough here of that
same campaign that we looked in the
auction insights report. So, what I
highly recommend that you do is that you
add the columns that I have here in your
available keyword set. So for instance,
I've got a few columns and I added them
here under going columns, modify
columns, and I just added them in and I
created a custom column set. The first
metric is your search impression share.
So this one we talked about. So of all
of the available impressions available
based on your targeting in your
campaign, what percentage of those
impressions are you actually capturing?
And in again, in a perfect world, we
would love to have 100% search
impression share, but that's not very
practical or realistic based on the
competitive nature of the auction place.
So, there's only two reasons you're not
showing up or you're not getting those
impressions. This is your search loss to
rank. And this tells you how often are
you not showing up because you're
actually just losing to the competition.
And then lastly, we have search loss to
budget. And search loss to budget
basically just tells us how often are
you not showing up because you just ran
out of money. And these metrics are
incredible because this tells us, this
is the very first step outside of the
auction insights report of understanding
who we're going up against from an
optimization standpoint. tells me where
I need to focus my efforts as a Google
advertiser. So, for example, I've got an
18% search impression share. The number
one thing that's hurting me right now is
my search loss to rank of 66%. So, this
means I've got a lot of work to do in
terms of improving my my campaign's
competitiveness against the the
marketplace. And then lastly, I've got
search loss to budget of 15%. So, in
order to fix the search loss to budget,
this is really easy. It just means
increase your campaign's daily budget,
right? If at the end of the day, it is
an action place. It's it's PPC,
pay-per-click, right? Paytoplay. It's
not organic traffic. So, you just gota
you got to spend sometimes. So, what I
would do in this example is I would take
my daily budget of $1,800 and I would
multiply it against 15% and the increase
I would add on to the to the campaign.
So, I would increase the daily budget by
15%. That should solve this search loss
to budget problem, which now leads me
with my final problem, which is
improving my search loss to rank, which
I want to go into much more detail for
you because this one is a bit of a
beast. Just wanted to take a quick
second and say if you're loving this
video, you're going to absolutely love
our free courses over at
adconversion.com. We have free courses
on Google Ads, Reddit Ads, LinkedIn Ads,
and more. If you're really liking this
video, I highly recommend that you check
out the Google Ads courses that I
created. All of our courses are free, by
the way. Uh, we're really just trying to
create the go-to place in the world to
master B2B ads because when I was
learning how to run ads, it was really
complicated. I got ripped off a lot and
I wanted to solve that problem. And I
highly recommend that you actually check
out this course right here, Google Ads
102. It's an intermediate course, which
basically means now that you've launched
your campaigns and now you have to
optimize those campaigns, how do you do
that? And I go super in detail here. So,
if you like structured learning, I
highly recommend that you check this
out. And if you are skeptical and you're
like, "Dude, what's the catch? free
courses. I don't I don't believe you.
You can check out our wall of love.
Like, people have landed jobs. They've
started agencies. Like, it's been
incredible to hear the impact we've been
making with this. So, check it out. All
right. I've pulled out the magic
whiteboard and I want to go ahead and
talk about Ad Rank in extensive detail
so that you can truly understand this
because those that really get this are
on another level in terms of expertise
with Google Ads. So, in the example of
the campaign that I walked you through,
I had a 66% search loss to rank. Now the
next logical question becomes Sylvio,
I've got a 66% search loss to rank. What
do I do next? That's what I want to
explain to you. And understanding this
formula is the thing that you must
understand and get and the light bulb
must click in order for you to feel
fully confident to overcome any
visibility limitations in your side of
your Google ad account. Okay, so ad rank
is your max bid times your quality score
times your expected impact of ad
extensions. I highly recommend that you
write this down if this is new to you
because as you become more experienced
as a Google advertiser, it becomes
second nature. Uh but if you're just
getting started, it's really helpful to
to write this down as a a reminder. So
what does this mean in practice? So that
campaign has a 66% search loss to rank
or LTR for an acronym. And with the 66%
search loss to rank, the the thing that
basically determines that 66% is this
formula. So this formula is why I have a
66% search loss to rank and not a 0%
search loss to rank. So now what we need
to do is we need to drill down on the
formula. So again it's max bid times
quality score times extensions. So for
instance max bid max bid is all about
how competitive I am being in terms of
my bidding strategies in relation to the
competition. Remember it's an auction
place. There's different advertisers
bidding against each other trying to buy
those positions and show up on the top
of the page. However, thankfully,
because Google released quality score
back in 2005, it's not just a bidding
bloodbath where whoever pays or wants to
pay the highest click gets the spot. It
also takes into consideration your
quality score and the impact of ad
extensions, which is fantastic in terms
of I'm trying not to nerd out too hard
here, but I go into detail this in our
Google Ads course, but it's the it's the
trinity between the advertiser gets what
they want, they get rewarded with lower
costs, the platform's happy because
there's more advertisers, and the user
is happy because they find more relevant
things. So by combining competitiveness
of bid, relevance with quality score and
then impact of ad extensions, Google
basically reverse engineered and
manufactured a more pleasant experience
for users. So what does that mean for us
as advertisers? That means these are the
variables we need to optimize in order
to show up more often. So when it comes
to your max bid, whenever I hear
questions like am I using the right
bidding strategy? What is the right
bidding strategy? all that like I really
think of that as like a factor or a
symptom of a much greater problem which
is do you have a good ad rank and if you
have a good ad rank and you're visible
but you're still not profitable then
that's a separate problem right that's
offer related landing page related etc
so with that being said max bid this is
where for instance if you are using and
we can have a whole lesson on this but
in terms of improving your max bid like
if you're using certain bidding
strategies and you're not ready for it
yet. So, for example, maybe you're using
maximize conversions or target CPA and
you don't have enough conversion
history. What Google might do is Google
might artificially lower your bids too
low where now you're just missing out
against the competition. Or maybe if
you're using a cost cap bid strategy
like target CPA or manual CPC or search
impression share with a target, whatever
that thing is, you're using some sort of
target, some sort of cap. Sometimes when
you set that cap too low in relation to
the competitiveness of the keywords
you're bidding on, your bids are too low
in relation to what everyone else is
bidding for that same thing and your
bidding strategy is hurting your search
loss to rank. If it's bidding related,
this is the easiest change to make. It
usually just means increase your bid
caps, increase your cost caps, try to
see the impact on your cost per click
and your search loss to rank over time
as you get more visible. But this is the
easiest thing to fix in terms of ad rank
if that is the thing that's hurting you.
The second thing that might be hurting
you is your quality score. And your
quality score is a number from 1 to 10.
That just basically means how relevant
are you? So for instance, if I go to
Google and I'm bidding on the keyword
Google Ads courses, I would love to see
as a user a keyword or I should say an
ad that talks about Google Ads courses
and then it drives me to a landing page
that gives me what I wanted, which is
the Google Ads courses. Sounds very
simple and very basic, easy to say, hard
to do sometimes. And and oftent times
it's it's the easy simple things done
right that make all the difference. But
when you audit your Google ad account or
your client's accounts, can you honestly
say I am doing a good job in terms of
creating that message match from the
keyword to the landing page. So in terms
of your quality score, this is also a a
formula. It's a it's a formula that also
has variables that determine that number
between 1 through 10. So this is where
you're going to have to kind of drill
down a bit. So for instance with quality
score there is a few things that
calculate this number and determine
whether you are a one which is horrible
or a 10 which is incredible. And what
those things are it's your ad relevance,
your landing page experience and your
expected click-through rate. So ad
relevance what this is this is basically
how good of a job did you do in terms of
grouping your keywords and your ads. So
when I hear questions like how many
keywords are the right keywords amounts
in an ad group or should I put you know
my keyword in my headline and my
description versus just my these are all
symptoms of a lack of understanding of
the metric of ad relevance because if
you understand ad relevance and you have
an above average ad relevance then that
means you did a good job at grouping
your keywords and your ads and you're
doing a good job in terms of matching
the relevance that's needed from
Google's point of view. So ad relevance
simply put means make sure that your
keywords and your ad copy speak to each
other. Right? If I'm bidding on the
keyword Google Ads courses, I should
talk I should use that keyword somewhere
in the ad saying Google Ads courses.
Super important. Otherwise, you're going
to run the risk of having a a low ad
relevance. The second thing is your
landing page experience. Your landing
page experience just basically means
when people show up on your page, did
they find value? Was the experience in
itself pleasurable? There's multiple
things that go into this. It's not just
a matter of keyword stuffing. I think
that's a big trap that we fall into is
you you're thinking like it's very
obvious when somebody creates a landing
page just for Google Ads where you just
see the headline is very vanilla and
it's just like in the the example of
Google Ads courses. It's like Google Ads
course is you know what I mean or
whatever and then it kind of subways in
like it's obviously they're doing it
from a landing page experience
perspective which is fine but that
shouldn't be the only thing to do. It's
also about how well it renders on
mobile. Is the page fast? Is is there
good UX and like clear separation? Is
the page indexable by Google so it can
get a better understanding and crawl
your page better? There's other
technical factors that go into improving
your landing page experience. And then
finally is expected clickthrough rate.
Expected clickthrough rate is just
Google's perception on how often they
think your ad will get clicked. This
one, in my experience, is the hardest
one to improve because it's a bit
lagging. And things go into this such as
how good is your keyword targeting. The
more irrelevant impressions you get, the
lower the amount of clicks in relation
to those impressions will be, the lower
CTR on your campaign will be, which will
impact your expected click-through rate.
How often are you testing ad copy? Are
you using ad extensions? All of these
things go into improving your CTR. So
for accounts that haven't been doing the
disciplined work of continuously
improving CTR over time, they typically
start to get punished here and that's
where it gets represented. And then
lastly, impact of ad extensions. This
one is just simply put, use ad
extensions. I highly recommend using
site link extensions. Those are the most
important. At least four site link
extensions ideally where you can link
people to additional relevant
information. If you're watching this and
you're in the B2B world, which that's
where we operate in, people are not
going to buy 60K contract products with
like one simple landing page. They do
research beforehand. They want to
educate themsel. So, just make that
journey a bit more pleasant and use as
many as you can. So, with this being
said, this is how we basically now need
to improve this 66% search loss to rank.
So, I'm going to go back now into my
account and I'm going to walk you
through this in some more detail. So,
let's go into the account here and I'm
going to go down into this campaign. I'm
going to drill into the keyword level
and I have to have this blurred for the
client's privacy. And here at the
keyword level, I've added in some
quality score metrics. So, I highly
recommend that you add these in for
yourself. I added in quality score, ad
relevance, expected clickthrough rate,
and landing page experience. So, the
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to go through that formula and I'm going
to I'm going to use it as a checklist.
Do I have a bidding problem? So, in the
case of this account, they don't have a
bidding problem. I don't see anything on
the bidding stride. That's that's
speaking to a bidding problem. So now
the second question is okay, do I have a
quality score problem? And by the way,
sometimes you have all these problems.
You have a bidding problem and a quality
score problem, which just means, you
know, the worst the before, the better
the after. So here now I'm going to sort
by quality score and I'm going to look
at my keywords and I'm going to run an
analysis and I'm going to say, okay,
what's the average quality score across
my campaign and what is the thing that
is hurting my quality score the most? So
in this case, I can see I've got a four
out of 10, a three out of 10, a three
out of 10, a three out of 10. Ideally,
70% of my keywords have a score of seven
and greater. That's my general rule of
thumb. There are exceptions to that, but
that's generally what I'm aiming for. I
will say quality score, it's like
anything, anything in extreme can be
bad. So, I I've also seen people take
quality score out of context where their
conversion rates are terrible and their
CPAs are bad and instead of doing the
work of improving their landing pages
and offers, they're stressing about a
quality score of five. Doesn't really
make sense. So, make sure you focus on
the right things. But in terms of
improving quality score in this example
with this campaign, the majority of my
top keywords have below average expected
clickthrough rate, which means this this
campaign probably does not have good ad
copy. I can optimize it. Maybe we're
missing ad extensions. And then I can
see here I have average landing page
experience. And this is really bad to
see below average ad relevance. So, this
tells me I can probably do a better job
in terms of the campaign structure and
how these ad groups and keywords were
put together so that I can start to make
a closer tie between my ad copy and the
keywords in there. Or maybe it's the
campaign structure was good, but I just
got to go and update the ad copy to be a
bit more relevant to the keywords. So,
with this in mind, now I'm able to go
and optimize this and go much deeper in
terms of improving this. If you want to
go deeper on quality score, then check
out this video right here. It's going to
be super helpful for you. I hope this
video was valuable. Be sure to give this
video a thumbs up. It really helps us
grow our reach as a small channel. And
subscribe so you can be notified of
future videos. When you're ready, check
out conversion.com and join our
community of 9,000 plus B2B marketers
and master ads with our free courses.
I'll see you in the next one.